We release [new versions of yente](https://github.com/opensanctions/yente/releases) on a regular basis in order to add new features, expand our data model and improve the scoring system. We recommend that all users of the on-premise version of the software schedule software upgrades at least **twice a year** in order to ensure proper functioning of the tool.

Some versions of yente introduce changes to the index format that require rebuilding the full index. This will happen automatically on the next re-index. We try to make new versions of yente compatible with at least the previous minor version's index format. This means that upgrading will usually incur little downtime (or even none, if deploying multiple instances behind a load balancer), as the new version will keep serving requests from the previous version's index until the new index is available. Please note that this is on a best-effort basis - if you depend on a zero-downtime upgrade, please perform a dry-run test of the upgrade for your specific upgrade path.

In order to perform an upgrade, a few steps need to be taken:

* **Upgrade the docker image used in your deployment to pull in the latest functionality.** The version of yente is determined by the active tag of the Docker container in operation: `ghcr.io/opensanctions/yente:<version>`. Simply changing that version tag will trigger an update. If you're running in Docker compose (the default), open `docker-compose.yml` and edit the line `services.app.image`, then run `docker compose pull` to fetch the latest container. `docker compose restart app` will run the new container version.
* **Adapt client applications to handle new entity types and properties.** We regularly introduce new fields or entity types in the data model to capture additional dimensions of the entities we cover. Read [our changelog](/changelog/) to keep updated, and make sure your application reads all the fields relevant to it.
* **Ensure that the scoring system you use is still ideal for your purposes.** yente's `/match` API endpoint supports multiple [different algorithms]({{ config.extra.opensanctions_url }}/matcher/) used to score results. As new algorithms are released, keep an eye on those developments to make sure you're still using the best solution available in the tool. yente will not switch algorithms automatically and try to keep existing implementations stable, so making this change is up to you.
